## Abstract {.page_break_before}

<!--From https://www.microbiologyresearch.org/prepare-an-article#2-->

<!--The abstract should, if possible, introduce the subject in the first sentence and-->
<!--present the main conclusion in the last sentence. References should not be cited, and-->
<!--any abbreviations used must be defined.-->

Nanopore-based single molecule sequencing has changed the landscape of sequence
analysis, with its combination of long reads, portable hardware and real-time results.
As DNA strands pass through a nanopore, an electrical signal is measured, whose form
depends on local DNA sequence, molecular damage,and methylation. This can be viewed as
an opportunity to measure methylation and damage, but is also a challenge for accurate
basecalling of the DNA strand. The highest accuracy basecallers are now based on neural
networks, trained on a range of genomes. Wick *et al.* recently showed that they could
achieve higher basecalling accuracy in *Klebsiella pneumoniae* if they trained the
neural net on that species and associated family. This raises a fundamental challenge
for data sharing. If every research team trains their own basecaller for their species,
it will become very difficult to co-analyse sequence from different studies, as they
will all have very different error-profiles. We therefore are seeking to crowd-source a
survey to investigate which taxa benefit from such bespoke basecalling models.
Importantly, these models would be made available to others to ensure consistency in
studies relating to the relevant taxa. We begin this effort by providing methods,
results, and a custom model from training on *Mycobacterium tuberculosis* data.

